plugins/catalog-backend/README.md, before:

# Catalog Backend

This is the backend for the default Backstage [software
catalog](http://backstage.io/docs/features/software-catalog/).
This provides an API for consumers such as the frontend [catalog
plugin](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/tree/master/plugins/catalog).

It comes with a builtin database-backed implementation of the catalog that can
store and serve your catalog for you.

It can also act as a bridge to your existing catalog solutions, either ingesting
data to store in the database, or by effectively proxying calls to an
external catalog service.

## Installation

This `@backstage/plugin-catalog-backend` package comes installed by default in
any Backstage application created with `npx @backstage/create-app`, so
installation is not usually required.

To check if you already have the package, look under
`packages/backend/package.json`, in the `dependencies` block, for
`@backstage/plugin-catalog-backend`. The instructions below walk through
restoring the plugin, if you previously removed it.

### Install the package

```bash
# From your Backstage root directory
yarn --cwd packages/backend add @backstage/plugin-catalog-backend
```

### Adding the plugin to your `packages/backend`

You'll need to add the plugin to the router in your `backend` package. You can
do this by creating a file called `packages/backend/src/plugins/catalog.ts` with
contents matching [catalog.ts in the create-app
template](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/master/packages/create-app/templates/default-app/packages/backend/src/plugins/catalog.ts).

With the `catalog.ts` router setup in place, add the router to
`packages/backend/src/index.ts`:

```diff
+import catalog from './plugins/catalog';

async function main() {
  ...
  const createEnv = makeCreateEnv(config);

+  const catalogEnv = useHotMemoize(module, () => createEnv('catalog'));
  const scaffolderEnv = useHotMemoize(module, () => createEnv('scaffolder'));

  const apiRouter = Router();
+  apiRouter.use('/catalog', await catalog(catalogEnv));
  ...
  apiRouter.use(notFoundHandler());

```

### Adding catalog entities

At this point the `catalog-backend` is installed in your backend package, but
you will not have any catalog entities loaded. See [Catalog
Configuration](https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-catalog/configuration)
for how to add locations, or copy the catalog locations from the [create-app
template](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/master/packages/create-app/templates/default-app/app-config.yaml.hbs)
to get up and running quickly.

## Development

This backend plugin can be started in a standalone mode from directly in this
package with `yarn start`. However, it will have limited functionality and that
process is most convenient when developing the catalog backend plugin itself.

To evaluate the catalog and have a greater amount of functionality available,
run the entire Backstage example application from the root folder:

```bash
# in one terminal window, run this from from the very root of the Backstage project
cd packages/backend
yarn start
```

This will launch both frontend and backend in the same window, populated with
some example entities.

## Links

- [catalog](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/tree/master/plugins/catalog)
  is the frontend interface for this plugin.

Commit message:

Move out the default entity model into its own module
Signed-off-by: Fredrik Adelöw <freben@gmail.com>

plugins/catalog-backend/README.md, after:

# Catalog Backend

This is the backend for the default Backstage [software
catalog](http://backstage.io/docs/features/software-catalog/).
This provides an API for consumers such as the frontend [catalog
plugin](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/tree/master/plugins/catalog).

It comes with a builtin database-backed implementation of the catalog that can
store and serve your catalog for you.

It can also act as a bridge to your existing catalog solutions, either ingesting
data to store in the database, or by effectively proxying calls to an
external catalog service.

## Installation

This `@backstage/plugin-catalog-backend` package comes installed by default in
any Backstage application created with `npx @backstage/create-app`, so
installation is not usually required.

To check if you already have the package, look under
`packages/backend/package.json`, in the `dependencies` block, for
`@backstage/plugin-catalog-backend`. The instructions below walk through
restoring the plugin, if you previously removed it.

### Install the package

```bash
# From your Backstage root directory
yarn --cwd packages/backend add \
  @backstage/plugin-catalog-backend \
  @backstage/plugin-catalog-backend-module-system-entity-model
```

This installs both the backend itself, and the module that implements the default [System Entity Model](https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-catalog/system-model).

### Adding the plugin to your `packages/backend`

If you have migrated to [the new backend system](https://backstage.io/docs/backend-system/), you add the following lines to your `packages/backend/src/index.ts` file:

```ts
backend.add(import('@backstage/plugin-catalog-backend/alpha'));
backend.add(
  import('@backstage/plugin-catalog-backend-module-system-entity-model'),
);
```

If you haven't migrated to the new backend system, you can instead
do this by creating a file called `packages/backend/src/plugins/catalog.ts` with
contents matching [catalog.ts in the create-app
template](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/master/packages/create-app/templates/default-app/packages/backend/src/plugins/catalog.ts).

With the `catalog.ts` router setup in place, add the router to
`packages/backend/src/index.ts`:

```diff
+import catalog from './plugins/catalog';

async function main() {
  ...
  const createEnv = makeCreateEnv(config);

+  const catalogEnv = useHotMemoize(module, () => createEnv('catalog'));
  const scaffolderEnv = useHotMemoize(module, () => createEnv('scaffolder'));

  const apiRouter = Router();
+  apiRouter.use('/catalog', await catalog(catalogEnv));
  ...
  apiRouter.use(notFoundHandler());

```

### Adding catalog entities

At this point the `catalog-backend` is installed in your backend package, but
you will not have any catalog entities loaded. See [Catalog
Configuration](https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-catalog/configuration)
for how to add locations, or copy the catalog locations from the [create-app
template](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/master/packages/create-app/templates/default-app/app-config.yaml.hbs)
to get up and running quickly.

## Development

This backend plugin can be started in a standalone mode from directly in this
package with `yarn start`. However, it will have limited functionality and that
process is most convenient when developing the catalog backend plugin itself.

To evaluate the catalog and have a greater amount of functionality available,
run the entire Backstage example application from the root folder:

```bash
# in one terminal window, run this from from the very root of the Backstage project
cd packages/backend
yarn start
```

This will launch both frontend and backend in the same window, populated with
some example entities.

## Links

- [catalog](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/tree/master/plugins/catalog)
  is the frontend interface for this plugin.
